So let us take a moment to
pat ourselves on the back and
review and recap a few of the things
that we have learned here.
And I will say that one of my, if I were
to say in a word, [LAUGH] the takeaway
here is you can't have bugs in your
code if you don't write any code.
So that's for sure, but we do need
to write code to do some things, so
we've been talking about it.
And we have done so javascript, much wow,
hope everyone appreciates the Comic Sans.
And we have been over a lot of
different features of JavaScript, and
the browsers, and
the other environments it runs in.
For example, we talked about
a lot of browser internals,
how JavaScript engines use the Stack and
the Heap to do their thing,
how the event loop queues up
stuff that needs to happen.
And what that means for us trying to
predict when the code that we thought was
gonna run 1,000 milliseconds later,
actually runs 1,200 milliseconds later or
whatever.
We talked about asynchronous
code in a little more detail.
We talked about callbacks and other ways
other APIs that we have to do things like
setTimeouts and
sort of schedule things to happen.
Or set intervals and
do things on every frame of data coming
in from the video stream, for example.
We talked about higher-level ways
to think about complex programs,
and kind of stay organized and
stay principled.
So things like programming paradigms,
functional programming,
object-oriented programming, and
some of the ways that those play out
in JavaScript, which is a pretty
multi-paradigm language in that sense.
We talked about prototypes plenty,
and the prototype chain, and
the zombie object at the top of it,
object object.
So now when we go to,
I don't know, an airport and
the next flight to object object is,
[LAUGH] then we will do a knowing nod.
[LAUGH] And
we also talked a lot about iteration and
some of these underlying protocols
that is the magic that's going on
under the hood when we do things like
a for of loop, or a spread operator and
how we can leverage that to even
implement our own iterable objects.
We talked about, yeah,
Symbol.iterator and generators, and
how we can use those to satisfy
the iteration protocols.
And we talked about class declarations and
inheritance of classes, and
setting methods and properties,
and making them private or
keeping them public, or having getters and
setters, all that good stuff.
So we can start to write code a little
bit more in the style that we might
be used to if we're coming from
another object-oriented language.
And we definitely talked about a tiny,
tiny tip of the iceberg of
the APIs that are available to us through
the magical thing we call a browser.
We talked about the DOM, and
the Canvas, and MediaDevices.
And now, also things like the share
API and the ways to figure out
what the user individually has as their
settings, do they prefer dark mode or not?
So we've really done so javaScript,
much wow, and also very workflow, amaze.
These are all Doge memes.
Okay, anyway,
we also talked a lot about the context
in which we are using JavaScript.
It's not enough to just
know the keywords and
all of that in order to really be
a productive JavaScript developer.
So we need to know things like
the fact that Node.js exists and
the historical accidents and what that
means for us [LAUGH] as developers.
And how npm and
the whole package ecosystem lets us pull
random strangers code into ours for
better or worse.
And [LAUGH] we talked about the different
module systems that there are in
JavaScript and how we need to specify
ES Modules in certain contexts if we wanna
use those imports and exports to be
able to keep our code base organized.
And not have all of our code in
one massively long script tag or
something like that.
We learn how to use a Vite to kind of
very quickly, as the name would imply,
get a dev server up and running and
iterate on development.
Which then we can use to build for
a more production-ready version
of the site that does a whole
bunch of magic under the hood.
And also opens the doors to all kinds
of other tooling, like Astro or
other kind of meta frameworks that
allow us to start building more and
more complex sites on top
of these kinda principles.
So there's almost this whole network
of these different tools and layers.
We talked about linting and ESLint,
and formatting with pruettier,
and how to set up our own custom
scripts in our packages and
configure everything with JSON files,
and so on and so forth.
We even deployed a site to the interwebs,
which might not have felt so magical, but
I think it's pretty magical.
We all,
Shipped something real to the world,
and that, I think,
everyone should feel good about.
And even if it didn't happen,
it's all good because we now
have a way to start exploring
the whole world of what we call
continuous delivery in the sense
of automatically building and
deploying our sites
whenever we push to Github.
And there's all kinds of
other things we can do.
Things like continuous integration,
running our test suite, for example,
every time we push a commit opens
up a whole world of possibilities.
And we got a little friendly with Github
and some of Github specifics here,
and things like VS Code, and other goodies
that Microsoft [LAUGH] has for us,
I guess.
So we've also even now all forked
a project, and the next step would be to
make a pull request or essentially a
request to the original project, Meme Me,
to incorporate the feature
that you've added.
So I can't promise I will keep up with
the, open source maintainer struggle is
real, but this is essentially what you
might be doing if you're using a tool.
Yeah, like Vite, for example, and
you find a bug and you wanna be useful and
contribute back to these open source
projects that we know and love and
depend on.
As developers, we can do all that through
Github and through this forking and
PR flow.
So we've opened, hopefully,
a lot of doors for ourselves.
And I don't know about you all, but I am
very impressed with everybody's work and
everybody's amazing questions.
So thank you all so much for all of the
engagement, and all of the rabbit holes,
and all of the edge cases and
new ideas and imaginations.
So amazing, amazing work.
And I hope from here, we are all
feeling empowered to go forth and
continue adventuring into the wide, weird,
sometimes wonderful,
sometimes wacky world of the web.
And may the force be
with you as you do so.
Thanks so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]